In this video, we will outline
some commonly used algorithms for
building a classification model.
After this video,
you will be able to describe the goal of
a classification algorithm and name some
common algorithms for classification.
Recall that a classification task is
to predict the category from the input
variables.
A classification model processes the input
data it receives and provides an output.
Since classification is a supervised task,
a target or
desired output is provided for
each sample.
The goal is to get the model outputs to
match the targets as much as possible.
A classification model
adjusts its parameters
to get its outputs to match the targets.
To adjust a model's parameters,
a learning algorithm is applied.
This occurs in a training phase
when the model is constructed.
There are many algorithms to
build a classification model.
In this course,
we will cover the algorithms listed here,
kNN or k Nearest Neighbors,
decision tree, and naive Bayes.
kNN stands for k Nearest Neighbors.
This technique relies on the notion that
samples with similar characteristics,
that is samples with similar values for
input, likely belong to the same class.
So classification of a sample is dependent
on the target values of
the neighboring points.
Another classification technique
is referred to as decision tree.
A decision tree is a classification
model that uses a treelike structure
to represent multiple decision paths.
Traversing each path leads to a different
way to classify an input sample.
A naive Bayes model uses a probabilistic
approach to classification.
Baye's Theorem is used to capture the
relationship between the input data and
the output class.
Simply put, the Baye's Theorem
compares the probability of an event
in the presence of another event.
We see here the probability
of A if B is present.
For example, probability of having
a fire if the weather is hot.
You can imagine event B depending
on more than one variable.
For example, weather is hot and windy.
We will cover kNN, decision tree and naive
Bayes in detail in the next few lectures.
There are many other classification
techniques, but we will focus on these
since they are fundamental algorithms
that are commonly used and
form the basis of other algorithms for
classification.